Exercise 3
Write a shell script to generate a multiplication table.

Exercise 4
Write a shell script that copies multiple files to directory.

Exercise 5
Write a shell script which counts the number of lines and number of words present in a given file.

Exercise 6
Write a shell script which displays the list of all files in a given directory.

Exercise 7
Write a shell script (small calculator) that adds, subtracts, multiplies and divides the two given numbers.

Exercise 8
Write a shell script to determine whether a given number is a prime number or not.

Exercise 9
Write a shell script to print all the primes below a given number is a prime number.

Exercise 10
Write a shell script to print the first n Fibonacci numbers.

Exercise 11
Write a shell script to find the gcd of two given numbers.

Exercise 12
Write a shell script to reverse the rows and columns of a matrix.

Exercise 13
Write a shell script to find the scalar product of two vectors.

Exercise 14
Write a C program that counts the number of blanks in a text file.

Exercise 15
Write a C program to count the number of words, lines and characters of a given text file.

Exercise 16
Implement in C the following unix commands using system calls.
a) cat  b)Is c)mv

Exercise 17
Write a C program that takes one or more file/directory names as command line input and reports the following information on the file:
a) File type  b)Number of links   c) Time of last access    d) Read, write, and execute permission

Exercise 18
Write a program in C that illustrates how to execute two commands concurrently with a command pipe.

Exercise 19
Write a c program that illustrates the creation of a child process using fork system call.

Exercise 20
Write a C program that displays the real time of a day every 60 seconds.

Exercise 21
Write a C program that illustrates for file locking using semaphores.

Exercise 22
Write a C program that implements a producer-consumer system with two processes (using semaphores).

Exercise 23
Write a C program that illustrates inter process communication using shared memory system calls.

Exercise 24
Write a C Program that illustrates the following:
a) Creating message queue. b) Writing to a message queue. c) Reading from a message queue

Exercise 25
Write a C program to copy a file into another using system calls.

Exercise 26
Write a C program that reads a file and writes in the reverse order.

Exercise 27
Write a C program to print all error messages.

Exercise 28
Write a C program to list only directories.

Exercise 29
Write a C program to check all 12 permission bits of a file.

Exercise 30
Write a C program to determine a file's access rights using UID and GID.

Exercise 31
Write a C program to set a file's time stamps to those of another file.

Exercise 32
Write a C program using fork, exec, and wait to run a UNIX command.

Exercise 33
Write a C program to accept user input as a command to be executed and then uses the strtok library function for parsing command line.

Exercise 34
Write a C program to run two programs in a pipeline (Child runs cat, parent runs tr).

Exercise 35
Write a program that uses fork and exec to run a user-defined program and kills it if does not complete in 5 seconds.